Port mastg test 0020 (by @guardsquare) (#3027)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-NETWORK/MASTG-TEST-0x20-1.md

---
title: Usage of Insecure TLS Protocols
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x20-1
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0050
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Maybe we could start saying something like: 

- "Although the Android Network Security Configuration does not provide direct control over specific TLS versions (unlike iOS https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/information_property_list/nsexceptionminimumtlsversion), there are other ways that apps can enable insecure TLS versions:"

Also, should we also include the following? (if yes, please rewrite, this is a copy-paste):

- A note like "In Android 10 and higher, TLS 1.3 is enabled by default for all TLS connections and its cipher suites cannot be customized (therefore, [setEnabledCipherSuites()](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket#setEnabledCipherSuites(java.lang.String%5B%5D)) is out of scope for Android 10 and higher)"
- An app can obtain an SSLContext that has TLS 1.3 disabled by calling [SSLContext.getInstance("TLSv1.2")](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLContext#getInstance(java.lang.String)) and can also enable or disable protocol versions on a per-connection basis by calling [setEnabledProtocols()](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket#setEnabledProtocols(java.lang.String%5B%5D)) on an appropriate object.

Source: https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl#Updates%20to%20SSL

Author: I left out the part with the cipher suites, because this is not content of this test case.

Multiple ways to enable insecure protocols exist in Android:

### Java Sockets

> If the app uses Java Sockets, the API call `javax.net.ssl.SSLSocket.setEnabledProtocols(String[] protocols)` sets the enabled protocols.

Author: Left out the part of NSC here, since this is in the overview now and you cannot set the TLS version with it anyway.

> ### OkHttp

Reviewer: Should we include this and use okhttp as an example?

```
### Third-party Libraries

Other libraries, such as [OkHttp](https://square.github.io/okhttp/), [Retrofit](https://square.github.io/retrofit/) or Apache HttpClient may have their own configurations for TLS protocols.

For example, if the app uses OkHttp and sets the allowed TLS protocols to `ConnectionSpec.COMPATIBLE_TLS` by calling `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.connectionSpecs(...)`, this results in one or more insecure TLS versions (e.g, in TLS v1.1 (see ["configuration history"](https://square.github.io/okhttp/security/tls_configuration_history/#okhttp-313))).

The API call `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.tlsVersions(...)` (["OkHttp documentation"](https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/https/)) can also be used to set the enabled protocols.
```

---
title: Insecure TLS Protocols Explicitly Allowed in Code
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x20-1
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0050
---

## Overview

> The Android Network Security Configuration does not provide direct control over specific TLS versions (unlike ["iOS"](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/information_property_list/nsexceptionminimumtlsversion)), and starting with Android 10, the secure TLS version 1.3 is enabled by default for all TLS connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Android Network Security Configuration does not provide direct control over specific TLS versions (unlike ["iOS"](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/information_property_list/nsexceptionminimumtlsversion)), and starting with Android 10, [TLS v1.3 is enabled by default](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl#Updates%20to%20SSL) for all TLS connections.
```

There are still several ways to enable insecure versions of TLS, including:

### Java Sockets

An app can obtain an SSLContext using an insecure TLS protocol by calling `SSLContext.getInstance("TLSv1.1")` and can also enable specific, potentially insecure, protocol versions using the API call `javax.net.ssl.SSLSocket.setEnabledProtocols(String[] protocols)`.

### Third-party Libraries

Other libraries, such as [OkHttp](https://square.github.io/okhttp/), [Retrofit](https://square.github.io/retrofit/) or Apache HttpClient may have their own configurations for TLS protocols.

> For example, if the app uses OkHttp and sets the allowed TLS protocols to `ConnectionSpec.COMPATIBLE_TLS` by calling `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.connectionSpecs(...)`, this results in one or more insecure TLS versions (e.g, in TLS v1.1 (see ["configuration history"](https://square.github.io/okhttp/security/tls_configuration_history/#okhttp-313))).
> 
> The API call `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.tlsVersions(...)` (["OkHttp documentation"](https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/https/)) can also be used to set the enabled protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, using `ConnectionSpec.COMPATIBLE_TLS` in OkHttp (via `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.connectionSpecs(...)`) can lead to insecure TLS versions, like TLS 1.1, being enabled by default in certain versions. Refer to OkHttp's [configuration history](https://square.github.io/okhttp/security/tls_configuration_history/) for details on supported protocols.

The API call `okhttp3.ConnectionSpec.Builder.tlsVersions(...)` can also be used to set the enabled protocols (["OkHttp documentation"](https://square.github.io/okhttp/features/https/)).
```
